+++
title = "0.17 to 0.18"
insert_anchor_links = "right"
[extra]
public_draft = 2320
status = 'hidden'
weight = 13
long_title = "Migration Guide: 0.17 to 0.18"
+++

The most important breaking changes to be aware of this release are:

- X

For a full list of changes that may require migration, please see below.
We recommend keeping this page open as you migrate your code base,
and searching within it for any issues you encounter.

If you run into a problem while migrating that was not covered by this migration guide,
please open an issue on the [`bevy-website`](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy-website) repo
or file a PR directly with the correct migration advice.

### Immutable Entity Events

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21408]) }}

The mutable methods of `EntityEvent` (`EntityEvent::from` and `EntityEvent::event_target_mut`)
have been moved to a separate trait: `SetEntityEventTarget`

This makes all `EntityEvents` immutable by default.

`SetEntityEventTarget` is implemented automatically for propagated events (e.g. `#[entity_event(propagate)]`).

### AssetSources now give an `async_channel::Sender` instead of a `crossbeam_channel::Sender`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21626]) }}

Previously, when creating an asset source, `AssetSourceBuilder::with_watcher` would provide users
with a `crossbeam_channel::Sender`. Now, this has been changed to `async_channel::Sender`.

If you were previously calling `sender.send(AssetSourceEvent::ModifiedAsset("hello".into()))`, now
it would be `sender.send_blocking(AssetSourceEvent::ModifiedAsset("hello".into()))`. These channels
are very comparable, so finding an analogous method between `crossbeam_channel` and `async_channel`
should be straight forward.

### Feature cleanup

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21388, 21435, 21436, 21437]) }}

`animation` has been renamed to `gltf_animation`.
`bevy_sprite_picking_backend` has been renamed to `sprite_picking`.
`bevy_ui_picking_backend` has been renamed to `ui_picking`.
`bevy_mesh_picking_backend` has been renamed to `mesh_picking`.

### Removed `dummy_white_gpu_image`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21572]) }}

`MeshPipeline`, `Mesh2dPipeline` and `SpritePipeline`  no longer have `dummy_white_gpu_image`.

`MeshPipeline` and `Mesh2dPipeline` no longer have `get_image_texture()` in their `impl`.

The method `build_dummy_white_gpu_image()` and `get_image_texture()` can be used if needed.

### Tick-related refactors

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21562, 21613]) }}

`TickCells` is now `ComponentTickCells`.

`ComponentSparseSet::get_with_ticks` now returns `Option<(Ptr, ComponentTickCells)>` instead of `Option<(Ptr, TickCells, MaybeLocation)>`.

The following types have been moved from the `component` module to the `change_detection` module:

- `Tick`
- `ComponentTicks`
- `ComponentTickCells`
- `CheckChangeTicks`

### `ImageRenderTarget`s `scale_factor` field is now an `f32`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21054]) }}

The `scale_factor` field on `ImageRenderTarget` is now an `f32` and no longer requires wrapping in `FloatOrd`.

### `#[reflect(...)]` now supports only parentheses

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21400]) }}

Previously, the `#[reflect(...)]` attribute of the `Reflect` derive macro
supported parentheses, braces, or brackets, to standardize the syntax going
forward, it now supports only parentheses.

```rust
/// 0.17
#[derive(Clone, Reflect)]
#[reflect[Clone]]

/// 0.18
#[derive(Clone, Reflect)]
#[reflect(Clone)]
```

```rust
/// 0.17
#[derive(Clone, Reflect)]
#[reflect{Clone}]

/// 0.18
#[derive(Clone, Reflect)]
#[reflect(Clone)]
```

### Schedule cleanup

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21608, 21817]) }}

- `ScheduleGraph::topsort_graph` has been moved to `DiGraph::toposort`, and now takes a `Vec<N>` parameter for allocation reuse.
- `ReportCycles` was removed: instead, `DiGraphToposortError`s should be immediately
  wrapped into hierarchy graph or dependency graph `ScheduleBuildError` variants.
- `ScheduleBuildError::HierarchyLoop` variant was removed, use `ScheduleBuildError::HierarchySort(DiGraphToposortError::Loop())` instead.
- `ScheduleBuildError::HierarchyCycle` variant was removed, use `ScheduleBuildError::HierarchySort(DiGraphToposortError::Cycle())` instead.
- `ScheduleBuildError::DependencyLoop` variant was removed, use `ScheduleBuildError::DependencySort(DiGraphToposortError::Loop())` instead.
- `ScheduleBuildError::DependencyCycle` variant was removed, use `ScheduleBuildError::DependencySort(DiGraphToposortError::Cycle())` instead.
- `ScheduleBuildError::CrossDependency` now wraps a `DagCrossDependencyError<NodeId>` instead of directly holding two `NodeId`s. Fetch them from the wrapped struct instead.
- `ScheduleBuildError::SetsHaveOrderButIntersect` now wraps a `DagOverlappingGroupError<SystemSetKey>` instead of directly holding two `SystemSetKey`s. Fetch them from the wrapped struct instead.
- `ScheduleBuildError::SystemTypeSetAmbiguity` now wraps a `SystemTypeSetAmbiguityError` instead of directly holding a `SystemSetKey`. Fetch them from the wrapped struct instead.
- `ScheduleBuildWarning::HierarchyRedundancy` now wraps a `DagRedundancyError<NodeId>` instead of directly holding a `Vec<(NodeId, NodeId)>`. Fetch them from the wrapped struct instead.
- `ScheduleBuildWarning::Ambiguity` now wraps a `AmbiguousSystemConflictsWarning` instead of directly holding a `Vec`. Fetch them from the wrapped struct instead.
- `ScheduleGraph::conflicting_systems` now returns a `&ConflictingSystems` instead of a slice. Fetch conflicts from the wrapped struct instead.
- `ScheduleGraph::systems_in_set` now returns a `&HashSet<SystemKey>` instead of a slice, to reduce redundant allocations.
- `ScheduleGraph::conflicts_to_string` functionality has been replaced with `ConflictingSystems::to_string`.
- `ScheduleBuildPass::build` now takes `&mut Dag<SystemKey>` instead of `&mut DiGraph<SystemKey>`, to allow reusing previous toposorts.
- `ScheduleBuildPass::collapse_set` now takes `&HashSet<SystemKey>` instead of a slice, to reduce redundant allocations.
- `simple_cycles_in_component` has been changed from a free function into a method on `DiGraph`.
- `DiGraph::try_into`/`UnGraph::try_into` was renamed to `DiGraph::try_convert`/`UnGraph::try_convert` to prevent overlap with the `TryInto` trait, and now makes use of `TryInto` instead of `TryFrom` for conversions.

### `RenderTarget` is now a component

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20917]) }}

`RenderTarget` has been moved from a field on `Camera` to a separate required component.

When spawning a camera, specify `RenderTarget` as a component instead of setting `camera.target`:

```rust
// 0.17
commands.spawn((
    Camera3d::default(),
    Camera {
        target: RenderTarget::Image(image_handle.into()),
        ..default()
    },
));

// 0.18
commands.spawn((
    Camera3d::default(),
    RenderTarget::Image(image_handle.into()),
));
```

### Winit user events removed

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[22088]) }}

In Bevy 0.17 and earlier, `WinitPlugin` and `EventLoopProxyWrapper` was generic over a `M: Message` type, that could be used to wake up the winit event loop and which was then forwarded to the ECS world. In 0.18 support for this has been removed, and those types are no longer generic.

If you used the default `WakeUp` type via the event loop proxy, you can still do this by using the new `WinitUserEvent` type:

```rust
// 0.17
fn wakeup_system(event_loop_proxy: Res<EventLoopProxyWrapper<WakeUp>>) -> Result {
    event_loop_proxy.send_event(WakeUp)?;

    Ok(())
}

// 0.18
fn wakeup_system(event_loop_proxy: Res<EventLoopProxyWrapper>) -> Result {
    event_loop_proxy.send_event(WinitUserEvent::WakeUp)?;

    Ok(())
}
```

If you were using it to send information into the ECS world from outside Bevy, you will need to create your own channel and system that forwards the messages.

### System Combinators

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20671]) }}

`CombinatorSystem`s can be used to combine multiple `SystemCondition`s with logical operators (such as `and`, `or`, and `xor`). Previously, these combinators would propagate any errors made when running the combined systems:

```rust
// 0.17
#[derive(Component)]
struct Foo;

// This run condition will fail validation because there is not an entity with `Foo` in the world.
fn fails_validation(_: Single<&Foo>) -> bool {
    // ...
}

fn always_true() -> bool {
    true
}

let mut world = World::new();

// Because `fails_validation` is invalid, trying to run this combinator system will return an
// error.
assert!(world.run_system_once(fails_validation.or(always_true)).is_err());
```

This behavior has been changed in Bevy 0.18. Now if one of the combined systems fails, it will be considered to have returned `false`. The error will not be propagated, and the combinator logic will continue:

```rust
// 0.18
let mut world = World::new();

// `fails_validation` is invalid, but it is converted to `false`. Because `always_true` succeeds,
// the combinator returns `true`.
assert_eq!(matches!(world.run_system_once(fails_validation.or(always_true)), Ok(true)));
```

This affects the following combinators:

| Combinator | Rust Equivalent |
|:----------:|:---------------:|
| `and`      | `a && b`        |
| `or`       | `a \|\| b`      |
| `xor`      | `a ^ b`         |
| `nand`     | `!(a && b)`     |
| `nor`      | `!(a \|\| b)`   |
| `xnor`     | `!(a ^ b)`      |

### FunctionSystem Generics

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21917]) }}

`FunctionSystem` now has a new generic parameter: `In`.

Old: `FunctionSystem<Marker, Out, F>`
New: `FunctionSystem<Marker, In, Out, F>`

Additionally, there's an extra bound on the `System` and `IntoSystem` impls
related to `FunctionSystem`:

`<F as SystemParamFunction>::In: FromInput<In>`

This enabled systems to take as input any _compatible_ type, in addition to the
exact one specified by the system function. This shouldn't impact users at all
since it only adds functionality, but users writing heavily generic code may
want to add a similar bound. See `function_system.rs` to see how it works in
practice.

### Removed `SimpleExecutor`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21176]) }}

Bevy has removed the previously deprecated `SimpleExecutor`, one of the `SystemExecutor`s in Bevy alongside `SingleThreadedExecutor` and `MultiThreadedExecutor` (which aren't going anywhere any time soon).
The `MultiThreadedExecutor` is great at large schedules and async heavy work, and the `SingleThreadedExecutor` is good at smaller schedules or schedules that have fewer parallelizable systems.
So what was `SimpleExecutor` good at? Not much. That's why it was removed. Removing it reduced some maintenance and consistency burdens on maintainers, allowing them to focus on more exciting features!

If you were using `SimpleExecutor`, consider upgrading to `SingleThreadedExecutor` instead, or try `MultiThreadedExecutor` if it fits the schedule.
It's worth mentioning that `SimpleExecutor` ran deferred commands inbetween _each_ system, regardless of if it was needed.
The other executors are more efficient about this, but that means they need extra information about when to run those commands.
In most schedules, that information comes from the contents and ordering of systems, via `before`, `after`, `chain`, etc.
If a schedule that was previously using `SimpleExecutor` still needs commands from one system to be applied before another system runs,
make sure that ordering is enforced explicitly by these methods, rather than implicitly by the order of `add_systems`.
If you are looking for a quick fix, `chain` is the easiest way to do this.

### Implementations of `Reader` now must implement `Reader::seekable`, and `AsyncSeekForward` is deleted.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[22182]) }}

The `Reader` trait no longer requires implementing `AsyncSeekForward` and instead requires
implementing `Reader::seekable`, which will cast the `Reader` to `&mut dyn SeekableReader` if it
supports `AsyncSeek` (`SeekableReader: Reader + AsyncSeek`).

```rust
// If MyReader implements `AsyncSeek` 
impl Reader for MyReader {
    fn seekable(&mut self) -> Result<&mut dyn SeekableReader, ReaderNotSeekableError> {
        Ok(self)
    }
}

// If MyReader does not implement `AsyncSeek` 
impl Reader for MyReader {
    fn seekable(&mut self) -> Result<&mut dyn SeekableReader, ReaderNotSeekableError> {
        None
    }
}
```

Since we now just use the `AsyncSeek` trait, we've deleted the `AsyncSeekForward` trait. Users of
this trait can migrate by calling the `AsyncSeek::poll_seek` method with
`SeekFrom::Current(offset)`, or the `AsyncSeekExt::seek` method.

### Remove ron re-export from bevy_scene and bevy_asset

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21611]) }}

The `ron` crate is no longer re-exported from `bevy_scene` or `bevy_asset`. This was done to reduce naming conflicts and improve API clarity.

If you were importing `ron` through `bevy_scene` or `bevy_asset`, you should now add `ron` as a direct dependency to your project.

This change only affects code that was explicitly importing the `ron` module. All internal scene serialization and deserialization functionality remains unchanged.

### Rename `ThinSlicePtr::get()` to `ThinSlicePtr::get_unchecked()`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21823]) }}

`ThinSlicePtr::get()` has been deprecated in favor of the new `ThinSlicePtr::get_unchecked()`
method in order to more clearly signal that bounds checking is not performed. Beyond the name
change, the only difference between these two methods is that `get_unchecked()` takes `&self` while
`get()` takes `self`. In order to migrate, simply rename all usages of `get()` with
`get_unchecked()`:

```rust
let slice: &[u32] = &[2, 4, 8];
let thin_slice = ThinSlicePtr::from(slice);

// 0.17
let x = unsafe { thin_slice.get(0) };

// 0.18
let x = unsafe { thin_slice.get_unchecked(0) };
```

### `AnimationEventTrigger::animation_player` has been renamed to `AnimationEventTrigger::target`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21593]) }}

This field and its docs strongly suggested that it would point to an entity holding an `AnimationPlayer`, but that actually depends on how the event was registered.

- If you used `AnimationClip::add_event`, the field really did point to the `AnimationPlayer`
- But if you used `AnimationClip::add_event_to_target`, this field instead pointed to an `AnimationTargetId`

To make this more clear, the field was renamed to `target` and the docs surrounding it improved.

### DragEnter now fires on drag starts

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21999]) }}

`DragEnter` now also fires when a drag starts over an already hovered entity.

### Remove `bevy::ptr::dangling_with_align()`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21822]) }}

`bevy::ptr::dangling_with_align()` has been removed. Use `NonNull::without_provenance()` instead:

```rust
// 0.17
let ptr = dangling_with_align(align);

// 0.18
let ptr = NonNull::without_provenance(align);
```

### AssetPlugin now has a `use_asset_processor_override` field.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21409]) }}

The `AssetPlugin` now has a `use_asset_processor_override` field. If you were previously setting all
`AssetPlugin` fields, you should either use struct update syntax `..Default::default()`, or set the
new `use_asset_processor_override` to `None`.

### `enable_prepass` and `enable_shadows` are now Material methods

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20999]) }}

The `MaterialPlugin` fields `prepass_enabled` and `shadows_enabled` have
been replaced by the `Material` methods `enable_prepass` and `enable_shadows`.

Analogous methods have also been added to `MaterialExtension`

```rust
// 0.17
MaterialPlugin::<MyMaterial> {
    prepass_enabled: false,
    shadows_enabled: false,
}

// 0.18
impl Material for MyMaterial {
    /// ...

    fn enable_prepass() { false }
    fn enable_shadows() { false }
}
```

### `ArchetypeQueryData` trait

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21581]) }}

To support richer querying across relations,
Bevy now supports query data that are not archetypal: the query can return entities based on conditions that do not exclusively involve the entity's archetype.

An example of non-archetypal filter is `Changed<C>`: the entity is filtered based on the archetype (having the component C) but also based on the change ticks of the component.

Code that requires queries to `impl ExactSizeIterator` may need to replace `QueryData` bounds with `ArchetypeQueryData`.

```rust
// 0.17
fn requires_exact_size<D: QueryData>(q: Query<D>) -> usize {
    q.into_iter().len()
}

// 0.18
fn requires_exact_size<D: ArchetypeQueryData>(q: Query<D>) -> usize {
    q.into_iter().len()
}
```

Manual implementations of `QueryData` will now need to provide the `IS_ARCHETYPAL` associated constant.
This will be `true` for most existing queries,
although queries that wrap other queries should delegate as appropriate.
In addition, queries with `IS_ARCHETYPAL = true` should implement `ArchetypeQueryData`.

### Put input sources for `bevy_input` under features

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21447]) }}

`bevy_input` provides primitives for all kinds of input. But on
consoles you usually don't have things like touch. On more obscure
platforms, like GBA, only gamepad input is needed.

If you use `bevy_window` or `bevy_gilrs`, they will automatically
enable the necessary features on `bevy_input`. If you don't depend
on them (for example, if you are developing for a platform that
isn't supported by these crates), you need to enable the required
input sources on the `bevy_input` / `bevy` crate manually:

```toml
# 0.17
bevy = { version = "0.17", default-features = false }

# 0.18 (enable sources that you actually use):
bevy = { version = "0.18", default-features = false, features = [
  "mouse",
  "keyboard",
  "gamepad",
  "touch",
  "gestures",
] }
```

### `TextLayoutInfo`'s `section_rects` field has been replaced with `run_geometry`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21656]) }}

`TextLayoutInfo`'s `section_rects` field has been removed.
In its place is a new field `run_geometry` that contains the non-glyph layout geometry for a run of glyphs: the run's span index, bounding rectangle, underline position and thickness, and strikethrough position and thickness. A run in `bevy_text` is a contiguous sequence of glyphs on the same line that share the same text attributes like font, font size, and line height. The coordinates stored in `run_geometry` are unscaled and relative to the top left corner of the text layout.

Unlike the tuples of `section_rects`, `RunGeometry` does not include an `Entity` id. To find the corresponding text entity, call the `entities` method on the root text entity’s `ComputedTextBlock` component and use the `span_index` to index into the returned slice.

### Change  `Bundle::component_ids` and `Bundle::get_component_ids` to return an iterator.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[14791, 15458, 15269]) }}

`Bundle::component_ids` and `Bundle::get_component_ids` were changed to return an iterator over
`ComponentId` and `Option<ComponentId>` respectively. In some cases this can avoid allocating.

For implementors:

```rust
// 0.17
unsafe impl<C: Component> Bundle for C {
    fn component_ids(components: &mut ComponentsRegistrator, ids: &mut impl FnMut(ComponentId)) {
        ids(components.register_component::<C>());
    }

    fn get_component_ids(components: &Components, ids: &mut impl FnMut(Option<ComponentId>)) {
        ids(components.get_id(TypeId::of::<C>()));
    }
}

// 0.18
unsafe impl<C: Component> Bundle for C {
    fn component_ids<(
        components: &mut ComponentsRegistrator,
    // we use a `use` here to explicitly not capture the lifetime of `components`
    ) -> impl Iterator<Item = ComponentId> + use<C> {
        iter::once(components.register_component::<C>())
    }

    fn get_component_ids(components: &Components) -> impl Iterator<Item = Option<ComponentId>> {
        iter::once(components.get_id(TypeId::of::<C>()))
    }
}
```

For consumers:

```rust
// 0.17
let mut components = vec![];
MyBundle::component_ids(&mut world.components_registrator(), &mut |id| {
    components.push(id);
});

// 0.18
let components: Vec<_> = B::component_ids(&mut world.components_registrator()).collect();
```

### `BorderRadius` has been added to `Node` and is no longer a component

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21781]) }}

`BorderRadius` is no longer a component, instead a `border_radius: BorderRadius` field has been added to `Node`.

### Per-RenderPhase Draw Functions

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21021]) }}

This PR makes draw function labels in `MaterialProperties` per-`RenderPhase` instead
of per-pass. This should only affect users of the low-level "manual Material" API,
and not users of the broader Material API. Specifying all draw functions is not
mandatory, but users should specify draw functions for all render phases the
material may queue to, or the material may not render.

- Removed `MaterialDrawFunction` in favor of:
  - `MainPassOpaqueDrawFunction`
  - `MainPassAlphaMaskDrawFunction`
  - `MainPassTransmissiveDrawFunction`
  - `MainPassTransparentDrawFunction`

- Removed `PrepassDrawFunction` in favor of:
  - `PrepassOpaqueDrawFunction`
  - `PrepassAlphaMaskDrawFunction`

- Removed `DeferredDrawFunction` in favor of:
  - `DeferredOpaqueDrawFunction`
  - `DeferredAlphaMaskDrawFunction`

### Generalized Atmospheric Scattering Media

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20838]) }}

Most of the fields on `Atmosphere` have been removed in favor of a handle
to the new `ScatteringMedium` asset.

```rust
// 0.17
pub struct Atmosphere {
    pub bottom_radius: f32,
    pub top_radius: f32,
    pub ground_albedo: Vec3,
    // All of these fields have been removed.
    pub rayleigh_density_exp_scale: f32,
    pub rayleigh_scattering: Vec3,
    pub mie_density_exp_scale: f32,
    pub mie_scattering: f32,
    pub mie_absorption: f32,
    pub mie_asymmetry: f32,
    pub ozone_layer_altitude: f32,
    pub ozone_layer_width: f32,
    pub ozone_absorption: Vec3,
}

// 0.18
pub struct Atmosphere {
    pub bottom_radius: f32,
    pub top_radius: f32,
    pub ground_albedo: Vec3,
    // This replaces all of the old fields.
    pub medium: Handle<ScatteringMedium>,
}
```

Unfortunately, this means `Atmosphere` no longer implements `Default`. Instead,
you can still access the default earthlike atmosphere through the
`EarthlikeAtmosphere` resource:

```rust
fn setup_camera(
    mut commands: Commands,
    earthlike_atmosphere: Res<EarthlikeAtmosphere>
) {
    commands.spawn((
        Camera3d,
        earthlike_atmosphere.get(),
    ));
}
```

### Image Loader Array Layout

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21628]) }}

`ImageLoader` now supports loading array textures using the new `ImageLoaderSettings::array_layout` setting.

In previous versions, loading an array texture generally required a system that waited for the asset to load, then called `Image::reinterpret_stacked_2d_as_array`. Now the `ImageLoader` can do that for you automatically.

```rs
use bevy::image::{ImageLoaderSettings, ImageArrayLayout};

let array_texture = asset_server.load_with_settings(
    "textures/array_texture.png",
    |settings: &mut ImageLoaderSettings| {
        // Load the image as a stacked array of 4 textures.
        settings.array_layout = Some(ImageArrayLayout::RowCount { rows: 4 });
    },
);
```

### Renamed `bevy_reflect` feature `documentation` to `reflect_documentation`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21577]) }}

The `documentation` feature in `bevy_reflect` has been renamed to `reflect_documentation` to clarify that it allows reflecting documentation of rust code at runtime.

### Tilemap Chunk Layout

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21684]) }}

`TilemapChunk` and `TilemapChunkTileData`'s default layout has been changed from the origin being in the top left to the origin being in the bottom left.

The previous layout origin didn't align with Bevy's world coordinate system, so when mapping to and from chunk space (to map a world coordinate to a tile) you would have to account for the chunk y coordinate being inverted.

With the origin of the chunk being in the bottom left, you can simply mod world coordinates to get chunk coordinates.

Some other tiling tools have the convention of the origin being at the top left, but it's more important for Bevy's features
to be internally consistent as it allows for better ease of use.

### Renamed `clear_children` and `clear_related` methods to `detach_*`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21470, 21537]) }}

In summary, we renamed `clear_*` and `remove_*` methods to `detach_*`.
This should clarify that these methods do not despawn the child entities or related entities.

We renamed several related methods on both `EntityCommands` and `EntityWorldMut`:

- The method `EntityCommands::clear_children` has been renamed to `EntityCommands::detach_all_children`.
- The method `EntityWorldMut::clear_children` has been renamed to `EntityWorldMut::detach_all_children`.
- The method `EntityCommands::remove_children` has been renamed to `EntityCommands::detach_children`.
- The method `EntityWorldMut::remove_children` has been renamed to `EntityWorldMut::detach_children`.
- The method `EntityCommands::remove_child` has been renamed to `EntityCommands::detach_child`.
- The method `EntityWorldMut::remove_child` has been renamed to `EntityWorldMut::detach_child`.
- The method `EntityCommands::clear_related` has been renamed to `EntityCommands::detach_all_related`.
- The method `EntityWorldMut::clear_related` has been renamed to `EntityWorldMut::detach_all_related`.

### LoadContext::path now returns `AssetPath`.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21713]) }}

`LoadContext::asset_path` has been removed, and `LoadContext::path` now returns `AssetPath`. So the
migrations are:

- `load_context.asset_path()` -> `load_context.path()`
- `load_context.path()` -> `load_context.path().path()`
  - While this migration will keep your code running, seriously consider whether you need to use
    the `Path` itself. The `Path` does not support custom asset sources, so care needs to be taken
    when using it directly. Consider instead using the `AssetPath` instead, along with
    `AssetPath::resolve_embed`, to properly support custom asset sources.

### Use `Mesh::try_* mesh` functions for `Assets<Mesh>` entries when there can be `RenderAssetUsages::RENDER_WORLD`-only meshes.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21732]) }}

Previously, the `Assets<Mesh>` resource would not retain `RenderAssetUsages::RENDER_WORLD`-only
meshes once their data was extracted.

In 0.18, `Assets<Mesh>` retains `RenderAssetUsages::RENDER_WORLD`-only meshes, even after their data
is extracted. To handle such meshes, `Mesh` now contains `Mesh::try_*` functions which return a
`Result<..., MeshAccessError>`. These functions return an
`Err(MeshAccessError,ExtractedToRenderWorld)` when the mesh has already been extracted.

If `Assets<Mesh>` can contain `RenderAssetUsages::RENDER_WORLD`-only meshes, the following `Mesh`
functions should be changed to their `try_*` equivalent and handled appropriately:

```rust
// assets: Res<'w, Assets<Mesh>>
let mesh = assets.get(some_mesh_handle).unwrap() // or assets.get_mut(some_mesh_handle).unwrap()

// 0.17
mesh.insert_attribute(...)
mesh.with_inserted_attribute(...)
mesh.remove_attribute(...)
mesh.with_removed_attribute(...)
mesh.contains_attribute(...)
mesh.attribute(...)
mesh.attribute_mut(...)
mesh.attributes(...)
mesh.attributes_mut(...)
mesh.insert_indices(...)
mesh.with_inserted_indices(...)
mesh.indices(...)
mesh.indices_mut(...)
mesh.remove_indices(...)
mesh.with_removed_indices(...)
mesh.duplicate_vertices(...)
mesh.with_duplicated_vertices(...)
mesh.compute_normals(...)
mesh.compute_flat_normals(...)
mesh.compute_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.compute_area_weighted_normals(...)
mesh.compute_custom_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.with_computed_normals(...)
mesh.with_computed_flat_normals(...)
mesh.with_computed_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.with_computed_area_weighted_normals(...)
mesh.with_custom_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.transformed_by(...)
mesh.transform_by(...)
mesh.translated_by(...)
mesh.translate_by(...)
mesh.rotated_by(...)
mesh.rotate_by(...)
mesh.scaled_by(...)
mesh.scale_by(...)
mesh.normalize_joint_weights(...)
// when feature = morph enabled
mesh.has_morph_targets(...)
mesh.set_morph_targets(...)
mesh.morph_targets(...)
mesh.with_morph_targets(...)
mesh.set_morph_target_names(...)
mesh.with_morph_target_names(...)
mesh.morph_target_names(...)

// 0.18
mesh.try_insert_attribute(...)
mesh.try_with_inserted_attribute(...)
mesh.try_remove_attribute(...)
mesh.try_contains_attribute(...)
mesh.try_with_removed_attribute(...)
mesh.try_attribute_option(...) // or mesh.try_attribute(...)
mesh.try_attribute_mut_option(...) // or mesh.try_attribute_mut(...)
mesh.try_attributes(...)
mesh.try_attributes_mut(...)
mesh.try_insert_indices(...)
mesh.try_with_inserted_indices(...)
mesh.try_indices_option(...) // or mesh.try_indices(...)
mesh.try_indices_mut_option(...) // or mesh.try_indices_mut(...)
mesh.try_remove_indices(...)
mesh.try_with_removed_indices(...)
mesh.try_duplicate_vertices(...)
mesh.try_with_duplicated_vertices(...)
mesh.try_compute_normals(...)
mesh.try_compute_flat_normals(...)
mesh.try_compute_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.try_compute_area_weighted_normals(...)
mesh.try_compute_custom_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.try_with_computed_normals(...)
mesh.try_with_computed_flat_normals(...)
mesh.try_with_computed_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.try_with_computed_area_weighted_normals(...)
mesh.try_with_custom_smooth_normals(...)
mesh.try_transformed_by(...)
mesh.try_transform_by(...)
mesh.try_translated_by(...)
mesh.try_translate_by(...)
mesh.try_rotated_by(...)
mesh.try_rotate_by(...)
mesh.try_scaled_by(...)
mesh.try_scale_by(...)
mesh.try_normalize_joint_weights(...)
// when feature = morph enabled
mesh.try_has_morph_targets(...)
mesh.try_set_morph_targets(...)
mesh.try_morph_targets(...)
mesh.try_with_morph_targets(...)
mesh.try_set_morph_target_names(...)
mesh.try_with_morph_target_names(...)
mesh.try_morph_target_names(...)
// the following functions do not have a try_ equivalent, but now panic if 
// the mesh data has been extracted to `RenderWorld`.
mesh.get_vertex_size(...)
mesh.get_vertex_buffer_size(...)
mesh.get_index_buffer_bytes(...)
mesh.get_mesh_vertex_buffer_layout(...)
mesh.count_vertices(...)
mesh.create_packed_vertex_buffer_data(...)
mesh.write_packed_vertex_buffer_data(...)
```

If the calls to `Mesh` functions (under the 0.17 section) are left unchanged after upgrading to 0.18,
they will now panic if the mesh is a `RenderAssetUsages::RENDER_WORLD`-only mesh that has been
extracted to the render world.

### Custom asset sources now require a reader.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21721]) }}

Previously, it was possible to create asset sources with no reader, resulting in your asset sources
silently being skipped. This is no longer possible, since `AssetSourceBuilder` must now be given a
reader to start. We also slightly changed how sources are expected to be built.

```rust
// 0.17
AssetSource::build()
    .with_reader(move || /* reader logic */)
    .with_writer(move || /* ... */)
    .with_processed_reader(move || /* ... */)
    .with_processed_writer(move || /* ... */);

// 0.18
AssetSourceBuilder::new(move || /* reader logic */)
    .with_writer(move || /* ... */)
    .with_processed_reader(move || /* ... */)
    .with_processed_writer(move || /* ... */;
```

### `ExtractedUiNode`'s `stack_index` has been renamed to `z_order` and is now an `f32`.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[19691]) }}

`ExtractedUiNode`’s `stack_index` field has been renamed to `z_order` and its type changed from `u32` to `f32`.
Previously `stack_index` would be converted into an `f32` after extraction during the `Render` schedule, then
offsets would be applied to determine draw order before sorting (lowest value rendered first).
For example, a node's fill color is given an offset of `0.` and a box shadow is given an offset of `-0.1`, so that
the shadow will be drawn behind the node.

Changing the field to an `f32`, enables finer control of the UI draw order by allowing these offsets to be applied during extraction,
and fixes a bug affecting the ordering of texture-sliced nodes.

### The non-text areas of UI `Text` nodes are no longer pickable

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[22047]) }}

Only the sections of `Text` node's containing text are pickable now, the non-text areas of the node do not register pointer hits.
To replicate Bevy 0.17's picking behavior, use an intermediate parent node to intercept the pointer hits.

### Cargo Feature Collections

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21472]) }}

Bevy now has high-level cargo feature collections (ex: `2d`, `3d`, `ui`) and mid-level feature collections (ex: `2d_api`, `3d_api`, `default_app`, `default_platform`). This isn't technically a breaking change, but if you were previously disabling Bevy's default features and manually enabling each specific cargo feature you wanted, we _highly_ recommend switching to using the higher level feature collections wherever possible. This will make it much easier to define the functionality you want, and it will reduce the burden of keeping your list of features up to date across Bevy releases.

See the Cargo Feature Collections pull request for a full list of options.

### `LineHeight` is now a separate component

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21180]) }}

The `line_height` field has been removed from `TextFont`. `LineHeight` is now a component required by `Text`, `Text2d`, and `TextSpan`.

### `AnimationTarget` replaced by separate components

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20774]) }}

The `AnimationTarget` component has been split into two separate components.
`AnimationTarget::id` is now an `AnimationTargetId` component, and
`AnimationTarget::player` is now an `AnimatedBy` component.

This change was made to add flexibility. It's now possible to calculate the
`AnimationTargetId` first, but defer the choice of player until later.

```rust
// 0.17
entity.insert(AnimationTarget { id: AnimationTargetId(id), player: player_entity });

// 0.18
entity.insert((AnimationTargetId(id), AnimatedBy(player_entity)));
```

### Virtual Geometry

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21301]) }}

Virtual geometry's asset format has changed. You must regenerate `MeshletMesh` assets.

### `BevyManifest::shared` is now a scope-like API.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20630]) }}

In previous versions of Bevy, `BevyManifest` returned a mapped `RwLock` guard. Now, it's a scope-like API:

```rust
// 0.16
let manifest = BevyManifest::shared();
let path = manifest.get_path("my_bevy_crate");

// 0.17
let path = BevyManifest::shared(|manifest| {
    manifest.get_path("my_bevy_crate")
});
```

### Entities APIs

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[19350, 19433, 19451]) }}

Entities are spawned by allocating their id and then giving that id a location within the world.
In 0.17, this was done in one stroke through `spawn` and `Entities::flush`.
In 0.18, the flushing functionality has been removed in favor of `spawn`ing individual `EntityRow`s instead.
Don't worry, these changes don't affect the common operations like `spawn` and `despawn`, but the did impact the peripheral interfaces and error types.
For a full explanation of the new entity paradigm, errors and terms, see the new `entity` module docs.
If you want more background for the justification of these changes or more information about where these new terms come from, see pr #19451.
This opens up a lot of room for performance improvement but also caused a lot of breaking changes:

## `Entities` rework

A lot has changed here.
First, `alloc`, `free`, `reserve`, `reserve_entity`, `reserve_entities`, `flush`, `flush_as_invalid`, `EntityDoesNotExistError`, `total_count`, `used_count`, and `total_prospective_count` have all been removed 😱.

Allocation has moved to the new `EntitiesAllocator` type, accessible via `World::entities_allocator` and `World::entities_allocator_mut`, which have `alloc`, `free`, and `alloc_many`.

Reservation and flushing have been completely removed as they are no longer needed.
Instead of reserving an entity and later flushing it, you can `EntitiesAllocator::alloc` (which does not need mutable access), and `World::spawn_at` can be used to "flush" the entity.

The counting methods have been reworked in the absence of flushing:
`len` and `is_empty` now deal with how many entity rows have been allocated (not necessarily the number that have been spawned),
and the new `count_spawned` and `any_spawned` are similar to the old `len` and `is_empty` behavior but are now O(n).

In terms of getting information from `Entities`, `get` and `contains` has been reworked to include non-spawned entities.
If you only want spawned entities, `get_spawned` and `contains_spawned` are available.
Additionally, `get` now returns `Result<Option<EntityLocation>, InvalidEntityError>` instead of `Option<EntityLocation>` for clarity.
Entities now may or may not have a location, depending on if it is spawned or not.

`EntityDoesNotExistError` has been removed and reworked.
See the new entity module docs for more, but:
When an entity's generation is not up to date with its row, `InvalidEntityError` is produced.
When an entity index's `Option<EntityLocation>` is `None`, `EntityValidButNotSpawnedError` is produced.
When an `Entity` is expected to be spawned but is not (either because its generation is outdated or because its row is not spawned), `EntityNotSpawnedError` is produced.
A few other wrapper error types have slightly changed as well, generally moving from "entity does not exist" to "entity is not spawned".

### Entity Ids

Entity ids previously used "row" terminology, but now use "index" terminology as that more closely specifies its current implementation.
As such, all functions and types dealing with the previous `EntityRow` have had their names 1 to 1 mapped to index.
Ex: `EntityRow` -> `EntityIndex`, `Entity::row` -> `Entity::index`, `Entity::from_row` -> `Entity::from_index`, etc.
Note that `Entity::index` did exist before. It served to give the numeric representation of the `EntityRow`.
The same functionality exists, now under `Entity::index_u32`.

### Entity Pointers

When migrating, entity pointers, like `EntityRef`, were changed to assume that the entity they point to is spawned.
This was not necessarily checked before, so the errors for creating an entity pointer is now `EntityNotSpawnedError`.
This probably will not affect you since creating a pointer to an entity that was not spawned is kinda pointless.

It is still possible to invalidate an `EntityWorldMut` by despawning it from commands. (Ex: The hook for adding a component to an entity actually despawns the entity it was added to.)
If that happens, it may lead to panics, but `EntityWorldMut::is_spawned` has been added to help detect that.

### Entity Commands

`Commands::new_from_entities` now also needs `&EntitiesAllocator`, which can be obtained from `UnsafeWorldCell::entities_allocator`.
`Commands::get_entity` does not error for non-spawned entities, making it useful to amend an entity you have queued to spawn through commands.
If you only want spawned entities, use `Commands::get_spawned_entity`.

### Other entity interactions

The `ArchetypeRow::INVALID` and `ArchetypeId::INVALID` constants have been removed, since they are no longer needed for flushing.
If you depended on these, use options instead.

`BundleSpawner::spawn_non_existent` is now `BundleSpawner::construct`.
`World::inspect_entity` now errors with `EntityNotSpawnedError` instead of `EntityDoesNotExistError`.
`QueryEntityError::EntityDoesNotExist` is now `QueryEntityError::NotSpawned`.
`ComputeGlobalTransformError::NoSuchEntity` and `ComputeGlobalTransformError::MalformedHierarchy` now wrap `EntityNotSpawnedError`.

### Removed `FontAtlasSets`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21345]) }}

- `FontAtlasSets` has been removed.
- `FontAtlasKey` now newtypes a `(AssetId<Font>, u32, FontSmoothing)`.
- `FontAtlasSet` is now a resource. It newtypes a `HashMap<FontAtlasKey, Vec<FontAtlas>>` and derives `Deref` and `DerefMut`.
- Font atlases are looked up directly using a `FontAtlasKey`, there's no longer a separate `AssetId<Font>` to `FontAtlasKey` map.
- `remove_dropped_font_atlas_sets` has been renamed to `free_unused_font_atlases_system`.
- The `FontAtlasSet` methods `add_glyph_to_atlas`, `get_glyph_atlas_info`, and `get_outlined_glyph_texture` have been moved into the `font_atlas` module and reworked into free functions.

### get_components, get_components_mut_unchecked now return a Result

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21780]) }}

`get_components`, `get_components_mut_unchecked`, and `into_components_mut_unchecked`
now return a `Result<_, QueryAccessError>` instead of an `Option`.

### `AmbientLight` split into a component and a resource

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21585]) }}

The `AmbientLight` used to be both a component _and_ a resource.
In 0.18, we've split this in two separate structs: `AmbientLight` and `GlobalAmbientLight`.
The resource `GlobalAmbientLight` is the default ambient light for the entire world and automatically added by `LightPlugin`.
Meanwhile, `AmbientLight` is a component that can be added to a `Camera` in order to override the default `GlobalAmbientLight`.
When appropriate, rename `AmbientLight` to `GlobalAmbientLight`.

```rust
// 0.17
app.insert_resource(AmbientLight {
    color: Color::WHITE,
    brightness: 2000.,
    ..default()
});

// 0.18
app.insert_resource(GlobalAmbientLight {
    color: Color::WHITE,
    brightness: 2000.,
    ..default()
});
```

### Derive on Resource will fail when using non-static lifetimes

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21385]) }}

Any type with `#[derive(Resource)]` that uses non-static lifetime will no longer compile.

```rust
// Will no longer compile in 0.18, `'a` should be `'static`.
#[derive(Resource)]
struct Foo<'a> {
   bar: &'a str
}
```

### `RenderPipelineDescriptor` and `ComputePipelineDescriptor` now hold a `BindGroupLayoutDescriptor`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21205]) }}

In previous versions of Bevy, `RenderPipelineDescriptor` and `ComputePipelineDescriptor` held a `BindGroupLayout` to describe the layout of shader bind groups, depending directly on `wgpu`'s `BindGroupLayout`.
Now, they hold a new type `BindGroupLayoutDescriptor` which holds the `BindGroupLayoutEntry`s directly. The descriptors are used to create `BindGroupLayout`s when they are first needed by a pipeline, and cached for reuse.

Concretely, this means wherever you were using a `RenderDevice` to create a `BindGroupLayout` to store in a `RenderPipelineDescriptor` or `ComputePipelineDescriptor`, you will now create a `BindGroupLayoutDescriptor`:

```rust
// 0.17
let bind_group_layout = render_device.create_bind_group_layout(
    // ...
);
commands.insert_resource(MyPipeline {
    bind_group_layout,
    /// ...
});
// ...
let bind_group = render_context.render_device().create_bind_group(
    None
    &my_pipeline.bind_group_layout,
    // ...
);

// 0.18
let bind_group_layout = BindGroupLayoutDescriptor::new(
    // ...
);
commands.insert_resource(MyPipeline {
    bind_group_layout,
    /// ...
});
// ...
let bind_group = render_context.render_device().create_bind_group(
    None
    &pipeline_cache.get_bind_group_layout(&my_pipeline.bind_group),
    // ...
);
```

### `Gizmos::cuboid` has been renamed to `Gizmos::cube`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21393]) }}

`Gizmos::cuboid` was renamed to `Gizmos::cube`.

### API for working with `Relationships` and `RelationshipTargets` in type-erased contexts

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21601]) }}

`ComponentDescriptor` now stores additional data for working with relationships in dynamic contexts.
This resulted in changes to `ComponentDescriptor::new_with_layout`:

- Now requires additional parameter `relationship_accessor`, which should be set to `None` for all existing code creating `ComponentDescriptors`.

### `Internal` has been removed

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21623]) }}

The `Internal` component, previously added as a required component to both one-shot systems and observer entities has been removed.

You can remove all references to it: these entities are no longer hidden by default query filters.
If you have tests which rely on a specific number of entities existing in the world,
you should refactor them to query for entities with a component that you care about:
this is much more robust in general.

This component was previously motivated by two factors:

1. A desire to protect users from accidentally modifying engine internals, breaking their app in subtle and complex ways.
2. A unified API for entity inspectors, allowing them to readily distinguish between "engine-internal" and "user-defined" entities.

In practice, we found that this increased user friction and confusion without meaningfully improving robustness.
Entity inspectors and similar tools can and should define their own entity categorization functionality:
simply lumping all "internal" entities together is rarely helpful.

### Automatic `Aabb` updates for sprites and meshes

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[18742]) }}

Bevy automatically creates an `Aabb` component for entities containing a mesh
or sprite - the `Aabb` is then used for visibility and picking.

In 0.17 the `Aabb` [was not updated](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/issues/4294)
if the mesh or sprite was modified. This has been fixed in 0.18. If you were working around the issue by manually updating or removing the
`Aabb`, then the workaround is no longer needed.

```rust
// 0.17: Modify the mesh, and remove the `Aabb` so that it's automatically
// recreated from the modified mesh.
mesh.insert_attribute(Mesh::ATTRIBUTE_POSITION, new_positions);
entity.remove::<Aabb>();

// 0.18: The `Aabb` will be automatically updated.
mesh.insert_attribute(Mesh::ATTRIBUTE_POSITION, new_positions);
```

For users who want more control, 0.18 also adds a `NoAutoAabb` component. This
will disable both automatic creation and automatic update of `Aabb` components.

```rust
entity.insert(NoAutoAabb);
```

### Changes to `AssetServer` and `AssetProcessor` creation.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21763]) }}

Previously `AssetServer`s `new` and `new_with_method_check` methods would take `AssetSources`. Now, these methods take
`Arc<AssetSources>`.

```rust
// 0.17
AssetServer::new(
    sources,
    mode,
    watching_for_changes,
    unapproved_path_mode,
)

// 0.18
AssetServer::new(
    // Wrap the sources in an `Arc`.
    Arc::new(sources),
    mode,
    watching_for_changes,
    unapproved_path_mode,
)
```

`AssetProcessor::new` has also changed. It now returns to you the `Arc<AssetSources>` which can (and
should) be shared with the `AssetServer`.

```rust
// 0.17
let processor = AssetProcessor::new(sources);

// 0.18
let (processor, sources_arc) = AssetProcessor::new(
    sources,
    // A bool whether the returned sources should listen for changes as asset processing completes.
    false,
);
```

### Same State Transitions

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[19363, 21792]) }}

Setting the next state will now always trigger state transitions like `OnEnter` and `OnExit`, even if the state is already the same.
If you depend on the previous behavior, you can use the `set_if_neq` method instead.

```rust
// 0.17
next_state.set(State::Menu);

// 0.18
next_state.set_if_neq(State::Menu);
```

### Image::reinterpret_size and Image::reinterpret_stacked_2d_as_array now return a Result

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20797]) }}

`Image::reinterpret_size` and `Image::reinterpret_stacked_2d_as_array` now return a `Result` instead of panicking.

Previously, calling this method on image assets that did not conform to certain constraints could lead to runtime panics. The new return type makes the API safer and more explicit about the constraints.

To migrate your code, you will need to handle the `Result` returned by `Image::reinterpret_size` or `Image::reinterpret_stacked_2d_as_array`.

### Changes to the `Process` trait in `bevy_asset`.

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21925]) }}

`ProcessContext` no longer includes `asset_bytes`. This has been replaced by `asset_reader`. To
maintain current behavior in a `Process` implementation, you can read all the bytes into a memory `Vec`.

```rust
// 0.17
let bytes = context.asset_bytes();

// 0.18
let reader = context.asset_reader();
let mut bytes = vec![];

reader
    .read_to_end(&mut bytes)
    .await
    .map_err(|err| ProcessError::AssetReaderError {
        path: context.path().clone_owned(),
        err: err.into(),
    })?;
```

### `BindGroupLayout` labels are no longer optional

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21573]) }}

In previous versions of Bevy, the `label` of a `BindGroupLayout` was optional. This practically only applies when implementing `AsBindGroup` manually without the `AsBindGroup` derive.

If you were previously omitting the `label` implementation from a `impl AsBindGroup`, you now must implement it:

```rust
impl AsBindGroup for CoolMaterial {
    // ...

    fn label() -> &'static str {
        // It is customary to make the label the name of the type.
        "CoolMaterial"
    }
}
```

### Traits `AssetLoader`, `AssetTransformer`, `AssetSaver`, and `Process` all now require `TypePath`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21339]) }}

The `AssetLoader`, `AssetTransformer`, `AssetSaver`, and `Process` traits now include a super trait
of `TypePath`. This means if you previously had a loader like:

```rust
// 0.17
struct MyFunkyLoader {
    add_funk: u32,
}
```

You will need to add the following derive:

```rust
// 0.18
#[derive(TypePath)]
struct MyFunkyLoader {
    add_funk: u32,
}
```

`TypePath` comes from `bevy_reflect`, so libraries may also need to add a dependency on
`bevy_reflect`.

### `bevy_gizmos` rendering split

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21536]) }}

The rendering backend of `bevy_gizmos` has been split off into `bevy_gizmos_render`.
If you were using `default-features = false` and `bevy_gizmos` and `bevy_render`, you may want to enable the `bevy_gizmos_render` feature now.

### Replaced `Column` with `ThinColumn`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21427]) }}

The low-level `Column` and `ThinColumn` types in `bevy_ecs` have been
merged into a single type, now called `Column` but with the api
of `ThinColumn`. This type does not keep track of its own allocated
length, and only provides unsafe methods.

### Renamed `bevy_platform::HashMap::get_many_*` to `bevy_platform::HashMap::get_disjoint_*`

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21898]) }}

Matching both [`hashbrown`](https://github.com/rust-lang/hashbrown/pull/648) and the `std` library,
we've renamed all the `get_many_*` methods on `bevy_platform::HashMap` to `get_disjoint_*`. So
rename:

- `get_many_mut` -> `get_disjoint_mut`
- `get_many_unchecked_mut` -> `get_disjoint_unchecked_mut`
- `get_many_key_value_mut` -> `get_disjoint_key_value_mut`
- `get_many_key_value_unchecked_mut` -> `get_disjoint_key_value_unchecked_mut`

### glTF Coordinate Conversion

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20394]) }}

**Bevy 0.17** added options for coordinate conversion of glTF files -
`GltfPlugin::use_model_forward_direction` and
`GltfLoaderSettings::use_model_forward_direction`. In **Bevy 0.18** these
options have changed. The options are disabled by default, so if you haven't
enabled them then your glTFs will work the same as before.

_CAUTION: The options are experimental, and their behavior may change in
future versions._

The goal of coordinate conversion is to take objects that face forward in the
glTF and change them to match the direction of Bevy's `Transform::forward`.
Conversion is necessary because glTF's standard scene forward is +Z, while
Bevy's is -Z (although not all glTF files follow the standard, and there are
exceptions for cameras and lights).

In 0.17 the conversion was applied to nodes and meshes within glTF scenes.
This worked well for some users, but had
[bugs](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/issues/20621) and didn't work well for
other users. In particular, node conversion caused issues with cameras and
lights.

In 0.18 there are two changes. Firstly, the `use_model_forward_direction` option
has been renamed to `convert_coordinates`, and is now a struct with two separate
options.

```rust
// 0.17
pub struct GltfPlugin {
    use_model_forward_direction: bool,
    // ...
}

// 0.18
pub struct GltfPlugin {
    convert_coordinates: GltfConvertCoordinates,
    // ...
}

pub struct GltfConvertCoordinates {
    rotate_scene_entity: bool,
    rotate_meshes: bool,
}
```

Secondly, the conversion behavior has changed. Nodes within the glTF scene are
no longer converted - instead a new conversion is applied to the scene entity
and mesh primitive entities. Whether these changes affect you will depend on how
you're using glTFs.

- If you never enabled the 0.17 conversion then you don't need to change
  anything - conversion remains disabled by default in 0.18. To check if you
  enabled the conversion, search for `use_model_forward_direction`.

- If you simply spawn your glTF via `SceneRoot` and want it to visually match
  the `Transform::forward` of the entity it's spawned on, then you're still
  supported. The internals of the scene will be different in 0.18, but the
  visual result will be the same. The only option you need to enable is `GltfConvertCoordinates::rotate_scene_entity`.

- If you want the `Mesh` assets in your glTF to be converted then you're
  supported by the `GltfConvertCoordinates::rotate_meshes` option. This can be
  combined with the `rotate_scene_entity` option if you want both.

- If you enabled the 0.17 conversion and aren't sure what to enable in 0.18,
  try enabling both the `rotate_scene_entity` and `rotate_meshes` options. This
  will be closest to the 0.17 behavior.

- If you tried the 0.17 conversion but found it caused issues with cameras or
  lights, then the 0.18 conversion should fix these issues.

- If you relied on node conversion, you'll find that 0.18 no longer applies that
  conversion. This change was made to avoid bugs and give other users more
  options.

If you want to try out glTF coordinate conversion, the simplest method is to
set `GltfPlugin::convert_coordinates` - this option can be set on app startup,
and is applied to all glTFs when they're loaded. For an app that uses
`DefaultPlugins`, the example below shows how to enable just scene conversion.

```rust
App::new()
    .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins.set(GltfPlugin {
        convert_coordinates: GltfConvertCoordinates { rotate_scene_entity: true, ..default() },
        ..default()
    }))
    .run();
```

If you want finer control, you can choose the option per-glTF with
`GltfLoaderSettings`.

```rust
let handle = asset_server.load_with_settings(
    "fox.gltf#Scene0",
    |settings: &mut GltfLoaderSettings| {
        settings.convert_coordinates = Some(GltfConvertCoordinates { rotate_scene_entity: true, ..default() });
    },
);
```

### `TrackedRenderPass::set_index_buffer` no longer takes buffer offset

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[20468]) }}

`TrackedRenderPass::set_index_buffer` no longer takes a separate buffer offset argument, which wasn't actually forwarded to wgpu. You have already needed to pass a `BufferSlice` that is sliced to the desired offset/size.

```rust
// 0.17
pass.set_index_buffer(indices.slice(1..), 1, IndexFormat::Uint32);

// 0.18
pass.set_index_buffer(indices.slice(1..), IndexFormat::Uint32);
```

### `BorderRect` now has `Vec2` fields

{{ heading_metadata(prs=[21581]) }}

The directional BorderRect fields (`left`, `right`, `top`, and `bottom`) have been replaced with `min_inset` and `max_inset` `Vec2` fields.

Using `min_inset` and `max_inset` removes the need to interpret `top` or `bottom` relative to the coordinate system, so the same logic will work consistently in both UI and 2D.
